LAPP-2 - Added Platform.sh deployment guide + small typo fixes (#398)
shopware/docs: guides/plugins/apps/hosting-guide/platform-sh-deployment.md

# Platform.sh Deployment

## Overview

[Platform.sh](https://platform.sh) is a powerful hosting provider for your infrastructure that's quite easy to use.

Keep in mind though, that this is **not** the only way to go for Apps! You can of course use different services, provider or host everything on a dedicated machine.

> In this guide we just tell you what we would do to start hosting an App von Platform.sh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we'd like to let you know what we'd do to get started hosting an App on Platform.sh.
```

> Read more about why this kind of hosting could be useful [here](README.md) or on there [official documentation](https://docs.platform.sh/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read more about why this kind of hosting could be useful [here](README.md) or in their [official documentation](https://docs.platform.sh/).
```

## Getting started

> To deploy your app on [Platform.sh](https://platform.sh), just follow the instructions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy your app on [Platform.sh](https://platform.sh), just follow those instructions:
```

* [Source Integrations](https://docs.platform.sh/integrations/source.html)
* [Private Git repository](https://docs.platform.sh/development/private-repository.html)
* [Using the Platform.sh CLI](https://docs.platform.sh/development/cli.html)

## Most important steps

1. Configure your [Source Integrations](https://docs.platform.sh/integrations/source.html) (Optional, but highly recommended!)
2. Install the [Platform.sh CLI](https://docs.platform.sh/development/cli.html)
3. [Authenticate](https://docs.platform.sh/development/cli.html#authentication) using your Platform.sh account
4. Create required config files. Also, if you create a new project, Platform.sh shows you a checklist where you can generate the code for these files
    * [routes.yaml](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/routes.html)
    * [services.yaml](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/services.html)
    * [.platform.app.yaml](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/app.html)
5. Push your changes to your Git Repo

> 6. After it's deployed, migrate the database by connecting via [SSH to your project](#ssh-into-your-project) and running the command `vendor/bin/doctrine-migrations migrations:migrate`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. After it's been deployed, migrate the database by connecting via [SSH to your project](#ssh-into-your-project) and running the command `vendor/bin/doctrine-migrations migrations:migrate`
```

7. That's it!

Your project should now be running at [https://console.platform.sh](https://console.platform.sh), and you can start developing your own app!

## Good to know

### Automatic TLS certificates based on Branch / Pull Request
[Platform.sh](https://platform.sh) automatically creates a URL and TLS certificate using [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) based on your [routes.yaml](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/routes.html) file for every active environment.

> You should be aware though that the URL will be build in a specific way. If your branch name gets to long, [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) won't be able to generate a certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should be aware though that the URL will be built in a specific way. If your branch name gets too long, [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) won't be able to generate a certificate.
```

Reviewer: Also: Is it known what is "too long"? Could we state the maximum length here?

Author: Kind of, it's a combination of multiple thinks. I'd rather link to the documentation instead of listing those points again

https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/routes/https.html#lets-encrypt-limits-errors-and-branch-names

Reviewer: Alright I see, I think it's sufficient to link the docs 👍

To avoid this you should configure your [Source Integrations](https://docs.platform.sh/integrations/source.html) to use the name of your **Pull Request** instead of the **Branch Name**.

**Read more about this topic here:** https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/routes/https.html#lets-encrypt-limits-errors-and-branch-names.

### Hook commands
You can place commands like the database migration mentioned above inside your `.platform.app.yaml` under [hooks](https://docs.platform.sh/configuration/app/build.html#hooks).
This way your commands will be executed every time it creates a new build.

{% code title=".platform.app.yaml" %}
```yaml
hooks:
    build: |
        set -e
        php vendor/bin/doctrine-migrations migrations:migrate --no-interaction
    deploy: |
        set -e
        php vendor/bin/doctrine-migrations migrations:migrate --no-interaction
```
{% endcode %}

> ## Useful Platform.sh commands

Reviewer: Doesn't this require installing some kind of CLI tool beforehand? If so, we should mention this here.
